So welcome back, guys.
Now, let us start with the concept of demand, Beijing, so let us consider a following scenario on
a 32 bit system.
Let us suppose that we have a pet size of four bites and let us suppose that the main memory size is
four gigabytes.
So maximum number of physical pages for each process would be equal to the size of the process, which
led to a space divided by its size.
So the total maximum number of physical pages that the process may create will be to restore the power
of 20.
Now we know that main memory is divided into frames of size equal to the size.
So total number of frames in the main memory will be equal to the size of the main memory divided by
its size and therefore total number of frames in the main memory will be tourists with about 20.
So now with this data, you can see that in the worst case, only one process would eat up the entire
memory.
Right, if you just read all the physical page of one process into to restore the power 20 frames,
you can see that the entire physical memory can be used up by just one process.
So if this happens, it is clear that there will be more multitasking.
In fact, operating system itself need some portion of the brain memory to run.
Right.
So you can see that for the process to execute, it is not feasible to load all the physical pages of
a process into main memory.
So not loading all the physical pages of a process into the main memory is achieved by the concept called
demand paging.
So now let's dive deep into the concept of divine paging and understand what actually it is.
So going forward, so demand Beijing objective is that keep only required physical evidence of a process
in memory and swap out the rest of the pages of a process to a secondary story such as disc.
So this is the overall objective or goal of time unpegging, so what are the benefits of the unpegging?
There will be increases in the multitasking because you can keep relevant physical pages that belong
to multiple processes running on the system in different frames of the main memory.
At the same time, there will be less memory consumed by process because you are really not reading
unnecessary physical pages of a process in the main memory.
And the machine can support more number of processes or users.
So in order to implement the concept of the mind Beijing, we need to introduce an additional information
in a page table.
This additional information is called valid and valid bit so invalid, but in a peace table is a bit
which represents whether a physical page is present in a frame or has been swept out of physical memory
to a desk.
So if it is set, it means that physical page is present in a frame and if it is not set, it means
that physical page is not present in the frame.
So you can see, for example, you have a virtual page number three, which maps to the physical page
number three.
And you can see that valid invalid bit for this entry is zero.
It means that for this physical page, the valid invalid bit is not set.
It means that this frame number has no meaning.
And we are sure that this page number has been scrubbed out of physical memory and is present on the
desk.
Right.
So valid, invalid status represents that whether a physical page is present in a main memory or it
is present on the desk.